README.md, before:

# Assignment 1

This is the repository for Group 40 for the first Assignment for Optimisation in Modern Power Systems

### Getting Started

1. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install gurobipy matplotlib pandas numpy
2. Run from the project root:
   ```bash
   python main.py
3. Please note: comment out the questions you do not want to run (i.e. if you only want to run the results for question 2b, comment out the sections for 1a, 1b and 1c)

### Code Structure

```bash
project_root/
│
├── main.py                       # Entry point for running experiments
│
├── data/
│   ├── question_1a/              # Inputs for Model 1a
│   ├── question_1b/              # Inputs for Model 1b
│   ├── question_1c/              # Inputs for Model 1c
│   └── question_2b/              # Inputs for Model 2b
│
├── src/
│   ├── data_ops/                 
│   │   ├── data_loader.py        # Data loading functions
│   │   ├── data_processor.py     
│   │   └── data_visualizer.py    # Plotting functions
│   │
│   ├── opt_model/                # Optimization model definitions (for problems 1a, 1b, 1c, and 2b)
│   │   └── opt_model.py
│   │
│   ├── runner/                   # Runs optimisation models and senstivity analyses
│   │   └── runner.py
│   │
│   └── utils/                    # Result printing and summaries
│       └── utils.py
│
├── LICENSE
└── README.md
```

### Input Data Structure

The repositories include base datasets under the `data/question_name` directories, organized as follows:

- **Consumers Data (`consumers.json`)**  
    Contains a list of consumers, each with:
    - `consumer_id`: Unique identifier for the consumer
    - `connection_bus`: Bus ID where the consumer is connected
    - `list_appliances`: List of appliance IDs owned by the consumer

- **Appliances Data (`appliance_params.json`)**  
    Contains a list of all appliances and their technical characteristics. Each appliance entry includes:

    - **For DERs (Distributed Energy Resources):**
        - `DER_id`: Unique identifier for the DER appliance
        - `DER_type`: DER technology type (e.g., "PV" for solar photovoltaic, "wind" for wind turbine)
        - `max_power_kW`: Maximum power output (kW)
        - `min_power_ratio`: Minimum operating power as a fraction of max power (unitless, 0–1)
        - `max_ramp_rate_up_ratio`: Maximum allowed increase in power per time step, as a fraction of max power (unitless, 0–1)
        - `max_ramp_rate_down_ratio`: Maximum allowed decrease in power per time step, as a fraction of max power (unitless, 0–1)

    - **For Loads:**
        - `load_id`: Unique identifier for the load appliance
        - `load_type`: Type of load (e.g., "EV", "heater")
        - `max_load_kWh_per_hour`: Maximum energy consumption per hour (kWh/h)
        - `max_ramp_rate_up_ratio`: Maximum allowed increase in load per time step, as a fraction of max load (unitless, 0–1)
        - `max_ramp_rate_down_ratio`: Maximum allowed decrease in load per time step, as a fraction of max load (unitless, 0–1)
        - `min_on_time_h`: Minimum consecutive hours the load must stay ON (h)
        - `min_off_time_h`: Minimum consecutive hours the load must stay OFF (h)

    - **For Storages:**
        - `storage_id`: Unique identifier for the storage appliance
        - `storage_capacity_kWh`: Total energy storage capacity (kWh)
        - `max_charging_power_ratio`: Maximum charging power as a fraction of storage capacity per hour (unitless, 0–1)
        - `max_discharging_power_ratio`: Maximum discharging power as a fraction of storage capacity per hour (unitless, 0–1)
        - `charging_efficiency`: Fraction of energy retained during charging (unitless, 0–1)
        - `discharging_efficiency`: Fraction of energy retained during discharging (unitless, 0–1)

**Note:** All ratios are relative to the respective appliance's maximum capacity or power. Units are indicated in parentheses.
    

- **Usage Preferences (`usage_preference.json`)**  
    Specifies user-defined preferences and constraints for energy usage and appliance operation. Example structure:
    - `consumer_id`: Unique identifier for the consumer
    - `_preferences`: containing
        - **Grid preferences**: Preferences for grid interaction (e.g., "prefer self-consumption", "allow export up to X kWh")
        - **DER preferences**: Preferences for usage of distributed energy resources (e.g., "curtailment cost", "limit wind export", "green consumption ratio")
        - **Load preferences**: Preferences for consumption (daily/hourly) and flexibility:
            - `load_id`: Unique load identifier
            - `min_total_energy_per_day_hour_equivalent`: Minimum daily energy usage (kWh or equivalent hours)
            - `max_total_energy_per_day_hour_equivalent`: Maximum daily energy usage (kWh or equivalent hours)
            - `hourly_profile_ratio`: Desired hourly usage pattern (array of ratios)
        - **Storages**: Preferences for usage of energy storage:
            - `storage_id`: Unique storage identifier
            - `initial_soc_ratio`: Initial state of charge (0–1)
            - `final_soc_ratio`: Desired final state of charge (0–1)
        - **Heat pumps**: Preferences for heat pump operation (e.g., "min runtime", "preferred hours")

- **DER Production (`DER_production.json`)**  
    Contains time series data for DER output profiles at each consumer location.
    - `consumer_id`: Location where the DER is evaluated
    - `DER_type`: Type of DER (e.g., "PV", "wind")
    - `hourly_profile_ratio`: Array of normalized hourly production values (0–1)

- **Bus Data (`bus_params.json`)**  
    Defines technical and economic parameters for each network bus.
    - `bus_id`: Unique bus identifier
    - `import_tariff`: Tariff for net energy import (DKK/kWh)
    - `export_tariff`: Tariff for net energy export (DKK/kWh)
    - `max_import_kw`: Maximum allowed import power (kW)
    - `max_export_kw`: Maximum allowed export power (kW)
    - `price_DKK_per_kWh`: Additional price information if applicable

Commit message:

Add battery lifetime and cost parameters to README

README.md, after:

# Assignment 1

This is the repository for Group 40 for the first Assignment for Optimisation in Modern Power Systems

### Getting Started

1. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install gurobipy matplotlib pandas numpy
2. Run from the project root:
   ```bash
   python main.py
3. Please note: comment out the questions you do not want to run (i.e. if you only want to run the results for question 2b, comment out the sections for 1a, 1b and 1c)

### Code Structure

```bash
project_root/
│
├── main.py                       # Entry point for running experiments
│
├── data/
│   ├── question_1a/              # Inputs for Model 1a
│   ├── question_1b/              # Inputs for Model 1b
│   ├── question_1c/              # Inputs for Model 1c
│   └── question_2b/              # Inputs for Model 2b
│
├── src/
│   ├── data_ops/                 
│   │   ├── data_loader.py        # Data loading functions
│   │   ├── data_processor.py     
│   │   └── data_visualizer.py    # Plotting functions
│   │
│   ├── opt_model/                # Optimization model definitions (for problems 1a, 1b, 1c, and 2b)
│   │   └── opt_model.py
│   │
│   ├── runner/                   # Runs optimisation models and senstivity analyses
│   │   └── runner.py
│   │
│   └── utils/                    # Result printing and summaries
│       └── utils.py
│
├── LICENSE
└── README.md
```

### Input Data Structure

The repositories include base datasets under the `data/question_name` directories, organized as follows:

- **Consumers Data (`consumers.json`)**  
    Contains a list of consumers, each with:
    - `consumer_id`: Unique identifier for the consumer
    - `connection_bus`: Bus ID where the consumer is connected
    - `list_appliances`: List of appliance IDs owned by the consumer

- **Appliances Data (`appliance_params.json`)**  
    Contains a list of all appliances and their technical characteristics. Each appliance entry includes:

    - **For DERs (Distributed Energy Resources):**
        - `DER_id`: Unique identifier for the DER appliance
        - `DER_type`: DER technology type (e.g., "PV" for solar photovoltaic, "wind" for wind turbine)
        - `max_power_kW`: Maximum power output (kW)
        - `min_power_ratio`: Minimum operating power as a fraction of max power (unitless, 0–1)
        - `max_ramp_rate_up_ratio`: Maximum allowed increase in power per time step, as a fraction of max power (unitless, 0–1)
        - `max_ramp_rate_down_ratio`: Maximum allowed decrease in power per time step, as a fraction of max power (unitless, 0–1)

    - **For Loads:**
        - `load_id`: Unique identifier for the load appliance
        - `load_type`: Type of load (e.g., "EV", "heater")
        - `max_load_kWh_per_hour`: Maximum energy consumption per hour (kWh/h)
        - `max_ramp_rate_up_ratio`: Maximum allowed increase in load per time step, as a fraction of max load (unitless, 0–1)
        - `max_ramp_rate_down_ratio`: Maximum allowed decrease in load per time step, as a fraction of max load (unitless, 0–1)
        - `min_on_time_h`: Minimum consecutive hours the load must stay ON (h)
        - `min_off_time_h`: Minimum consecutive hours the load must stay OFF (h)

    - **For Storages:**
        - `storage_id`: Unique identifier for the storage appliance
        - `storage_capacity_kWh`: Total energy storage capacity (kWh)
        - `max_charging_power_ratio`: Maximum charging power as a fraction of storage capacity per hour (unitless, 0–1)
        - `max_discharging_power_ratio`: Maximum discharging power as a fraction of storage capacity per hour (unitless, 0–1)
        - `charging_efficiency`: Fraction of energy retained during charging (unitless, 0–1)
        - `discharging_efficiency`: Fraction of energy retained during discharging (unitless, 0–1)
        - `battery_lifetime_yrs`: Given lifetime of battery in years (10)
        - `battery_cost_per_kWh`: Cost of battery per kWh battery capacity (set to 1 as standard)

**Note:** All ratios are relative to the respective appliance's maximum capacity or power. Units are indicated in parentheses.
    

- **Usage Preferences (`usage_preference.json`)**  
    Specifies user-defined preferences and constraints for energy usage and appliance operation. Example structure:
    - `consumer_id`: Unique identifier for the consumer
    - `_preferences`: containing
        - **Grid preferences**: Preferences for grid interaction (e.g., "prefer self-consumption", "allow export up to X kWh")
        - **DER preferences**: Preferences for usage of distributed energy resources (e.g., "curtailment cost", "limit wind export", "green consumption ratio")
        - **Load preferences**: Preferences for consumption (daily/hourly) and flexibility:
            - `load_id`: Unique load identifier
            - `min_total_energy_per_day_hour_equivalent`: Minimum daily energy usage (kWh or equivalent hours)
            - `max_total_energy_per_day_hour_equivalent`: Maximum daily energy usage (kWh or equivalent hours)
            - `hourly_profile_ratio`: Desired hourly usage pattern (array of ratios)
        - **Storages**: Preferences for usage of energy storage:
            - `storage_id`: Unique storage identifier
            - `initial_soc_ratio`: Initial state of charge (0–1)
            - `final_soc_ratio`: Desired final state of charge (0–1)
        - **Heat pumps**: Preferences for heat pump operation (e.g., "min runtime", "preferred hours")

- **DER Production (`DER_production.json`)**  
    Contains time series data for DER output profiles at each consumer location.
    - `consumer_id`: Location where the DER is evaluated
    - `DER_type`: Type of DER (e.g., "PV", "wind")
    - `hourly_profile_ratio`: Array of normalized hourly production values (0–1)

- **Bus Data (`bus_params.json`)**  
    Defines technical and economic parameters for each network bus.
    - `bus_id`: Unique bus identifier
    - `import_tariff`: Tariff for net energy import (DKK/kWh)
    - `export_tariff`: Tariff for net energy export (DKK/kWh)
    - `max_import_kw`: Maximum allowed import power (kW)
    - `max_export_kw`: Maximum allowed export power (kW)
    - `price_DKK_per_kWh`: Additional price information if applicable
